*togglecursor.txt*  Change cursor in insert mode

Author:  John Szakmeister <john@szakmeister.net>
License: Same terms as Vim itself (see |license|)

This plugin is only available if 'compatible' is not set, and your vim has
been compiled with |+cursorshape| support.

==============================================================================
INTRODUCTION                                     *togglecursor*

In gVim, when you change from normal mode to insert mode, the cursor shape
typically changes from a block cursor to a line ('|') cursor.  However, in a
terminal, you lose that feature.  This plugin aims to help bring it back on
supported terminals.

==============================================================================
SUPPORTED TERMINALS                              *togglecursor-supported*

Currently supported terminals are iTerm2 for the Mac and KDE's Konsole.  The
xterm console is partially supported as well.  Older xterm's didn't support
the line cursor, so this plugin currently sets the cursor to underline
instead.

The gnome-terminal application doesn't support changing the cursor via escape
sequences and is not supported.  On unsupported terminals, Vim's default
behavior is left unaltered.

The plugin also supports tmux, and will change your cursor inside a tmux
session too.

==============================================================================
OPTIONS                                          *togglecursor-options*

All the cursor options take a string representing the shape.  The shape is
allowed to be one of 'block', 'line', or 'underline'.

                                                 *togglecursor_default*
g:togglecursor_default  The default cursor shape.  It is used in all modes
                        except insert mode.  The default value is 'block'.

                                                 *togglecursor_insert*
g:togglecursor_insert   The insert mode cursor shape.  The default value is
                        'line'.

                                                 *togglecursor_leave*
g:togglecursor_leave    The cursor shape to set when exiting Vim.  The default
                        value is to be the same a |togglecursor_default|.

                                                 *togglecursor_disable_tmux*

In some versions of tmux, the passthrough handling appears to be slightly
broken.  When you are on the last line of a short file, and delete a line with
'dd', tmux appears to insert an extra line into the mix and distorts the
terminal.  It appears to be fixed in tmux 1.7.  If you'd like to disable using
tmux passthrough support to try and change the cursor, do the following in
your vimrc: >

    let g:togglecursor_disable_tmux = 1

The default value for |togglecursor_disable_tmux| is 0.

Note: options should be overridden in your vimrc.  Changing them after Vim has
loaded will have little or no effect.

==============================================================================
LIMITATIONS                                      *togglecursor-limitations*

Since this plugin relies on detecting on the type of terminal being run, it
will not work automatically when working remotely.  The required environment
variables are simply not available.

This also doesn't support all terminals.  Currently, only iTerm2 for the Mac,
and Konsole under Linux are supported.  Others may be added later, as long as
there is a safe way to detect and add that support.

Also, this plugin works by setting the |t_SI|, |t_EI|, |t_ti|, and |t_te|
options and including special escape codes to let the terminal know how to
change the cursor.  I've tried to avoid doing anything that would cause bad
interaction with the terminal, but sometimes bugs happen.  If you run into an
environment where cursor changing is a problem, put the following into your
vimrc to disable the plugin: >

    let g:loaded_togglecursor = 0

Once such bug appears to exist in tmux 1.6, at least under Fedora 16.  If you
experience troubles with cursor changing under tmux, you can disable cursor
changing only under tmux using the |togglecursor_disable_tmux| option.

==============================================================================
ABOUT                                            *togglecursor-about*

Grab the latest version or report a bug on GitHub:

https://github.com/jszakmeister/vim-togglecursor

vim:ft=help
